Walking
Importing these two
images as a reference,
We can continue with the second part
of the cycle, which is what I did here.
Here we see that I took Point 1
to Point 5, which we already had,
Then, from Point 5 to Point 9,
in which I added 4 more steps,
whereby we return to
the first initial pose,
which is number 1
With this we already
have a complete cycle.
In this case I already added
some movement to the torso,
where we can see a
slight movement of shoulders,
since I used the different
poses that we had as a reference
to trace the silhouette of the
point where one foot is ahead
and the point where
the other foot is ahead.
So, thanks for having those drawings,
I could give more
character to our character
and thus making our walking
cycle a little more advanced.
To continue with the second
foot, I followed the same process,
I cheered my legs and, for the torso,
I could repeat the movement in Y,
since for each cycle it is
the same type of movement.
Go down in the same
support pose, go back up,
follow the intermediate point in
the contact pose and lower again.
In addition to that Y movement,
I added animation to the vector
to pass, from this moment, to the
moment where we see it more from the front.
If we see the lively
torso, just do this,
Then I added the bag,
since it is an object that
was almost part of the torso,
and the arms, the
front arm and the back arm,
that from this view, the
back arm is not visible,
but in this position a
little appears already.
The arms help us give it a
little more dimensionality,
understand a little more that
is a three-dimensional person
and that he is moving his
shoulders naturally when walking.
Then, at the time of
animating the second leg cycle,
it can be useful to
copy all the keyframes
that they have for the first
cycle and paste them in a new layer,
They can use as a reference.
If we go here, we will see
that exactly does not match,
from what we said from the
perspective point of view,
but let's see that the
poses are practically the same,
just change the location
of the edges, let's say.
So, having that as a
reference can help you follow
the second part of the cycle
and make it a little easier.
We already have our
first complete walking cycle,
but we can still take
it a little further.
If we see it now, the face does not
move, the hair is completely solid
and our walk is fine
but it's quite generic,
In fact, it looks a little
locked because it is too structured.
If we enter the keyframes of our leg,
they are totally distant
everyone, that's fine for a normal cycle,
But maybe we can find a way
to give it more personality.
Also if we start to see
the intermediate tables,
let's see how this leg
happens, for example,
that the scale changes a lot, it
deforms a little between point and point,
especially because it’s a rotation,
and sometimes strange
things happen in between.
What we will do in the next
stage is to correct all those details
and give our
character a little more life.
That's what I did in that
instance, in which maybe now
floor guides are no longer needed
And we can
concentrate on adding detail.
Here I still did not focus on the top,
but I preferred to
prioritize the legs.
If we see the leg
keyframes in this version,
Here the thing changes a little.
Here all I did was
change a pose, which is this,
in which I made this leg,
if we look for the pose between four
and five of the previous version ...
let's see pose number four ...
it's the moment where
the foot is moving forward,
preparing to support, according
to Richard Williams reference,
this point would be equivalent,
where the foot is still flexed,
but not yet fully forward
and is preparing for
the point of contact.
What I did in this design
was to keep it well under
because I wanted to give
him a carefree personality.
If we make the leg rise a lot,
It’s going to look like he’s stomping,
and I wanted to give the
character a relaxed look.
What I did was take
that a little further
and do that in pose number four,
instead of having
your foot looking down,
I did a little looking up
to make a kind of
kick before supporting.
What I wanted to do with this was
to give it a little more carefree,
almost as if it were kicking pebbles.
Then what I did was
that this keyframe,
which corresponds to the
same but to the other leg,
instead of being nailed and
linear about the moment of pose four,
I gave them a little bit of
acceleration, from Ease in and Ease out with F9,
and I delayed them a little,
since when my foot was stretched,
Now he has a little
more trajectory to go,
So with this, what I
did was add some details
to other transitions,
for example here ...
and I added a point here
because if not, our foot became tiny.
So if we see this
concentrated on the legs,
let's see that it is equal
to the previous walking cycle
but he has a moment
where he stretches his legs,
So with that I wanted to
give it a more relaxed look.
After adjusting that kind of
thing to give it personality,
I also worried about
adjusting the volumes.
Since we are cheering with
"shapes", we must be very careful
when we do each of the poses,
Let our leg feel that
it is the same object.
For example, this leg becomes
too curved and should not be so.
We have to correct
things to make it look natural
and so that they seem to have
the same volume, the same mass.
Here too this looks a bit weird,
then little by little we are
going to adjust that kind of thing
so that our walk looks natural.
Once I was happy
with the character's leg movement,
I continued with the top.
What I did was edit
the face shapes a bit
to continue the movement of the torso.
So if we see the torso with the arms,
the character is doing this swing
for left and right with each step.
What I did was add a
keyframe at each end to the face
in which, when you look more for
one side, it is more compacted,
and when he looks more
forward, the face stretches,
That makes it give us
a feeling of volume.
After having all those things
ready, I could continue with my hair
which I usually leave for the end,
since it is an appendix type object,
something that is
attached to our main character.
What I did was give it a bounce.
I made the rebound quite
exaggerated thinking that, in this instance,
Our character will be quite far
away and I wanted that to be noticed.
If we see everything
together, something like that remains.
Finally, once I had
decided on the leg movement,
I removed this color
effect for reference
and I added the line that will
divide us one leg of the other.
In this case, as the movement
of the leg makes it pass by,
I had to add another line
to divide that leg moment.
Depending on the design they make,
these types of lines would not be necessary,
maybe they can just make
their leg a little darker,
that the back leg is darker, and with
that they already give it dimensionality,
But as I like to get
complicated, I looked for a design
in which you will
separate the figure with lines.
That kind of thing is what also gives
a little more square look,
since they are things that
are not usually used much
in animation in After Effects.
For the lines, I only added
keyframes at times when it was needed.
Sometimes they are one per frame ...
and sometimes one per pose,
since interpolation did quite well.
Finally, as a last stage,
what we had left was to do
that our character is
related to the Null scroll
to move on the floor.
We can hide the guides and we
already have our final animation,
but our previous scene had
a totally different pose.
So, once I had the
walking cycle ready,
What I did was work on the transition.
On the one hand, after the
character saves the diamond,
Make a small anticipation where
it starts to move to the left.
This is a small anticipation
that leads to our character
to a slightly more neutral pose
where it is not so pulled from that side.
What I did was take it as a reference
and then include it as a guide layer ...
in our animation.
I more or less included the
character where I was going
and taking it as a reference, I
started working in a new pose.
For that reason, when
I do a walking cycle,
I usually leave some time at
the beginning without cheering
to be able to add a
transition, if necessary.
If we start from frame 0,
no problem, we can move it,
we stretch it and add any
previous animation we need,
In this case, the time I
already had came in handy.
So what I did was, from
the first step we took
for the first phase
of our walking cycle,
I was in reverse
process adding transitions,
until you reach a pose that
resembles the last of our previous stage.
For that, I added keyframes as needed.
For example, the legs do
this, they do it quickly,
but basically one foot stays
still and the other starts moving ...
until they reach the contact pose
where we can start with that cycle.
The same for the rest of the things.
The hand was quite simple
because in our first walking pose,
we have a hand in my
pocket and what I did was that,
The hand is kept in the pocket
and a slight movement in the hair.
If we unlink this from
the translational movement,
The character does
something like that.
What it does is
simulate more or less a turn,
throw a first kick in which
you look for the contact pose
To start our cycle.
Once we have all the character
linked to the translation layer
and the transition resolved, we
can put a scene after the other
and it will work quite well.
What I did in this case
was to add a small Time Remap
to the hike layer, since if I didn't,
In my opinion it moved too fast.
Maybe not bad
but as we wanted to give
you a relaxed attitude,
I thought that by adding a Time Remap
and make the sequence a
little slower, it looked better.
So don't worry too much
about the speed of a cycle,
since, being all vector animation,
we can apply a Time Remap quietly,
that After Effects will
interpolate the intermediate frames
and it will be very smooth, it is
not as if we tried to interpolate
A sequence of images.
For example, here I threw them a lot and
we can see that it looks in slow motion.
We can also play
with that kind of thing.
I finally added the Posterize layer
to lower it to 12 frames per second.
For a walk cycle, 12
frames per second works well.
Putting everything to our main comp,
We can see how everything looks.
What I am noticing
is that, at the moment
in which the character starts to
move, this foot makes rare displacements.
That's because, if we go to the
precomp in which the character
make this transition,
I encouraged these feet
without reference to the floor guides.
Now I will try to
correct it using the guides.
First we unlink all our character
so that it does not move with the
floor, so that it does not move,
and I'm going to use
that green square ...
or I will duplicate another,
I put it in another color ...
to use it as a
reference for this foot,
since it is a special movement.
Here you see the problem.
I think that's fine,
just adjust the line.
Ready, now we link
back torso and legs,
the whole character to Null X.
We have to link it again
from the point where we did it,
in our case it was frame 0.
There we corrected the problem.
With that we finish one more scene
and we are close to
finishing our animation.